Creating the search template is fairly easy.
I'm still in the theme development Codex page on the sidebar.
Click on Search top HP you'll see what WordPress recommends for this template.
Basically it just says we need to include results and a search form with the search query.
If a user input in 1 First things first let's create this file.
I'm going to be using the code from the index template.
I'm going to remove the breaking news widget before I do anything else
then open the static search template.
There are a few components that we need to add.
The first is the page title bar.
So add that right now.
The next thing the setup is the search form right above the posts inside the search template.
You'll find a section called search box.
Copy everything between these two comments and paste it inside the search template.
It should be placed inside the div tag with the class post content with both components added Let's
convert them into dynamic code.
Back to the search template right above the loop.
We already have a search form and so it would make sense to reuse it.
I'm going to replace this form with the Get search form function for the title.
I'm going to make this part of a text translatable and echo it out with the underscore e function
after that.
I'm going to call the function D search query.
This function will output the text the user searched for.
Lastly I'm going to make this text translatable.
I'm gonna go back to the home page.
Now he can try and search for something and we should see some results.
Keep in mind that our posts are created using fake press which uses a.
If some generator regular English words won't work unless your posts actually contain English words
the search template should be working without a problem.
We can begin working on custom templates.
There are some situations where we want to make custom templates for pages posts and any other post
types.
For example let's take a look at the about us page.
This page contains our content on the left and the sidebar on the right.
A lot of themes out there provide the option to make this full width.
There are two ways we can replicate this.
We can code up our own logic and then perform checks to see if the user wants a full web page.
The second option is we can take advantage of WordPress as custom templates feature.
I don't know about you but I think the custom template route seems simpler and it actually is.
Let's see how this works.
I'm going to create a file called Full dash with Dash page dot HP unlike WordPress templates you can
name your customer template files whatever you want.
I could have called this fire truck if I wanted to.
Next I'm going to copy the contents of the page template into this custom template.
Then I'm going to remove the sidebar from this template and remove this dip tag with the class post
content.
I'm not going to remove what's inside only the opening and closing tag itself.
So now the question is how do you make WordPress recognize this as a custom template.
Well it's simple at the very top of the file.
We're going to add a file header.
Do you remember how we make file headers.
We use block comments.
Let's create a blog comment.
Now add the following text template name colon for web page.
We have to pass in the words template name followed by the name of the template.
You can name it whatever you want but it's good practice to keep it short and concise.
Go back to your browser and try editing the about us page.
If you look on the side you'll see an option to select a template WordPress automatically finds our
custom templates and we can select it as an option so let's select the full width page template and
save our changes.
If you look at the page now you'll see it's completely full width.
We didn't have to code any logic whatsoever.
WordPress took care of checking our theme for custom templates and handling which template to load.
The more you use WordPress the more you'll find out how powerful it actually is.
Now lets say I want to have a full width post.
Let's try viewing a post and then editing it.
You'll notice that we don't have that template option available.
This is because by default WordPress will only allow custom templates to be enabled for pages only.
It's very simple to make custom templates available for any post type you want in the resource section
of this lecture.
I provide a link to the page template handbook.
This whole page talks about how to work with custom templates but the one section I want you to focus
on is the creating page templates for specific post types WordPress shows us.
In the example that in order to make a template available for other post types you have to add the template
post type setting followed by the name of the post type before you make a template for posts.
I want you to notice one thing and that is this warning right below the example.
It states that custom templates for post types other than pages has only been available since version
four point seven.
This is very important to note.
If you ever work on a theme on a wordpress version earlier than four point seven.
Let's get started.
I will not be using the full dash with Dash page template as the full with post template.
This is because this template is based on the original page template which is really just a stripped
down version of the single post template.
I want to have all the features of the single post template without the sidebar.
I'm going to create a new file named for dash with Dash post stop BHP copy the contents from the single
template into this newly created file unlike last time I'm going to remove the sidebar and remove the
div tags with the clasp post content just the opening and closing tags.
Nothing in between
the very top create a new file header set the template name as full width post and add the other part
template post type with the value of post this file with template will only be for posts it will not
be made available for pages try editing the post and you'll find the template available for use save
your changes and view the Post
that save for custom templates.
Be sure to read up on this link I provided earlier.
For more information about custom templates.